## My Contribution to the Semester Project

# The group started by brainstorming ideas for what we wanted to do and once we realized that we wanted to  do something with augur and location I suggested that we should use a Google Maps API to handle a lot of the mapping stuff because it would be obnoxious to havbe to code all of that when it's already been made. So, I set out to create our API keys and doing the  research to figure out how these APIs work. The two APIs that we ended up using were the Google Geoloacation API and the Google Maps API. After I got that stuff working I started to work on our main html file that would host our main projects code. I knew we wanted to go with a column layout so I started by trying out a couple of different things until I got the setup how we liked it. Then, I set to work on figuiring out how to embed the map from the API into the front end and making it interavctive. We had decided as a group that we wanted to constrain the user from being able to use the map freely so that they could only use our predetermined ways of moving the map about. After I had the map embedded exactly how we wanted it I moved on to creating the ability to click on a state from the list and moving the map about. This seemed to be challenging at first until I realized that I kept passing my reference to the map to functions that would move the map therefore changing the reference but I wasn't passing the map back from the function to update the variable in the main function. Once I figured that part out, the clicking functionality came right together. After, I set my eyes on creating the city search and zip code search. I had a few ideas to error check zip codes by parsing a csv file that contained all zip codes in the United States but after a while of unsuccessfully making that happen I decided to look up APIs that did this error handling for me and that is when I stumbled upon the Google Geolocation API and since I had already made an API key for Google we could already use that one so it was super nice. I then preceded to write the code for city searching and zip code searching on the right side of our page. Lastly, I worked on creating the ability to click the pins on the map because if you know the location of someone then you need to know something about them such as their email to contact them so I started by making use of another part of the Google API and that was its info box feature. Basically I made this functionality by making sure to close the last info box to make sure there was only one open at a time and then I cross referenced the latitude and longitude of the marker being clicked with the array of marker objects that we were storing and then you could match a marker with an email to display in the info box when the marker was clicked. I had ideas to add on to this feature but ultimately didn't have time to add them.