journal/PROGRESS_REPORT.md, before:

Progress report

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
November 14 2021

We made plans on how we are going to change the front end of the augur application. Specifically, we analyzed various aspects of an 
existing application and made notes of ways the user interface can be iproved upon for ease of use and quality of life.
We noted that various aspects of the application are unexplianed in what they do, there's no apparent way add git groups or repositories,
there is no infor or help page, and certain links don't work while other times data deosn't load. 

For instance, stuff like adding/ searching for information on git groups and repositories may be something done in the command line, an inability
to make the user for the application know of a way to search for their pwn group is an aspect of the UI that can be added to.

As far as the project scope goes, since this is the first sprint, there isn't really any plans to alter our scope of altering the UI to be more user friendly.

However, there were issues with getting the augur for to deploy, but that is detailed in the OBSTACLES document.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

November 29 2021

We designed aspects of the application's frontend improvements. Specifically we designed some new pages such as a home page, an error page and an info page.
I also worked closely with the proffesor to get Augur installed properly into a server instance, however an issue arrived where something must've been added 
to said instance, preventing connection with it. Any time an attept is made, an error pops up saying that the connection took too long and timed out. 
The same seems to be true for other methods to connect to the server, sich as FileZilla or normally through the public DNS. Mor einformation can be found in the OBSTACLES document.

As our project is to make changes to the front end of the application, there aren't any current plans t change the scope of the project. However, if the incapability to even begin editing 
the front end code persists, our ability to complete the project to the fullest will start be become a worry.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

added the sprint 3 documentation
Signed-off-by: Devin Hackman <dph6pz@umsystem.edu>

journal/PROGRESS_REPORT.md, after:

Progress report

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
November 14 2021

We made plans on how we are going to change the front end of the augur application. Specifically, we analyzed various aspects of an 
existing application and made notes of ways the user interface can be iproved upon for ease of use and quality of life.
We noted that various aspects of the application are unexplianed in what they do, there's no apparent way add git groups or repositories,
there is no infor or help page, and certain links don't work while other times data deosn't load. 

For instance, stuff like adding/ searching for information on git groups and repositories may be something done in the command line, an inability
to make the user for the application know of a way to search for their pwn group is an aspect of the UI that can be added to.

As far as the project scope goes, since this is the first sprint, there isn't really any plans to alter our scope of altering the UI to be more user friendly.

However, there were issues with getting the augur for to deploy, but that is detailed in the OBSTACLES document.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

November 29 2021

We designed aspects of the application's frontend improvements. Specifically we designed some new pages such as a home page, an error page and an info page.
I also worked closely with the proffesor to get Augur installed properly into a server instance, however an issue arrived where something must've been added 
to said instance, preventing connection with it. Any time an attept is made, an error pops up saying that the connection took too long and timed out. 
The same seems to be true for other methods to connect to the server, sich as FileZilla or normally through the public DNS. Mor einformation can be found in the OBSTACLES document.

As our project is to make changes to the front end of the application, there aren't any current plans to change the scope of the project. However, if the incapability to even begin editing 
the front end code persists, our ability to complete the project to the fullest will start be become a worry.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

December 6 2021

This sprint was more of a learning experience than the other sprints. Since we set out to make changes to the front end out of both a desire to improve quality 
of life and to fix broken link routers, we knew there would have to be some work put into the routing system. However, since it was all done in the Vue framewrok, 
something that the three of us had limited experience with, we spent some time tryign to learn its formating. Due to this we made little progress, though progress we made nonetheless.
After looking around, our groupmates found documentation pertaining to the formating of Vue code and we should be able to preceed with more changes.

As far as the scope fo the project goes, there may have to be some changes. Despite the fact that the three of us are fairly unfamiliar with Vue code format,
the code of the frontend itself is quite broken. There are numerous routing functionalites that just aren't implemented, and half of entire files can be compeltely commented out
for reasons unknown. While the goal of our group was to fix the routing issues, we weren't quite prepared for the code we came across to actually be broken to this extent.
No wonder there are so many issues with the navigation, the routing in off itself os broken. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
